Patch 1 (#6084)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/bronze/usaco-1445.mdx

---
id: usaco-1445
source: USACO Bronze 2024 December
title: It's Mooin' Time
author: Arnav Gokhale
---

[Official Analysis (C++, Python)](https://usaco.org/current/data/sol_prob3_bronze_dec24.html)

## Explanation

Notice that modifying exactly one character can only affect at most $3$ substrings.

For example, had the string been $\text{ABCDEF}$ and the $\text{C}$ was modified to a $\text{Z}$, the affected substrings would now be, $\text{ABZ}$, $\text{BZD}$, and $\text{ZDE}$.

> Using this, we can first precompute a map representing the counts of each moo that was originally present in the string. Then, we can try every single possible edit to the string, with a total of $\mathcal{O}(26N)$ possible modifictaions. While trying every single possible edit to a specific position, due to only three substrings being affected, the global answer does not change by much. So, we can adjust the frequencies of moo's based on the $3$ substrings being affected after every modification, and check whether any moo's exceeded a frequency of $f$ due to the modifications. It is important to reverst the specific position back to its original character after the modifications, since only one position can be modified at a time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using this, we first precompute a map representing the counts of each moo that was originally present in the string. Then, we can try every single possible edit to the string, with a total of $\mathcal{O}(26N)$ possible modifications. While trying every single possible edit to a specific position, due to only three substrings being affected, the global answer does not change by much. So, we can adjust the frequencies of moo's based on the $3$ substrings being affected after every modification, and check whether any moo's exceeded a frequency of $F$ due to the modifications. It is important to reverse the specific position back to its original character after the modifications, since only one position can be modified at a time.
```

	set<string> answers;
	map<string, int> counts;

	// Function to check whether a given sequence starting at position i is a MOO
	auto is_moo = [&](int i) -> bool {
		if (i < 0 || i + 2 >= n) return false;
		return (c[i] != c[i + 1] && c[i + 1] == c[i + 2]) ? true : false;
	};

	// Updates a given string's frequency in the map
	auto update = [&](int i, int change) -> void {
		if (!is_moo(i)) return;

		string t = c.substr(i, 3);
		counts[t] += change;

		if (counts[t] >= f) answers.insert(t);
	};

	// For a certain modification, updates all the affected strings
	auto update_range = [&](int i, int delta) {
		update(i - 2, delta);
		update(i - 1, delta);
		update(i, delta);
	};

	// Add the original counts of the array
	for (int i = 0; i < n - 2; i++) { update(i, 1); }

	// Test all possible modifications
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		char original = c[i];

		for (char let = 'a'; let <= 'z'; let++) {
			update_range(i, -1);
			c[i] = let;
			update_range(i, 1);
		}

		update_range(i, -1);
		c[i] = original;
		update_range(i, 1);
	}

	cout << answers.size() << '\n';
	for (auto moo : answers) cout << moo << '\n';
}
```

</CPPSection>

<PySection>

</PySection>

<JavaSection>

> </JavaSection>

Reviewer 2: why were these left in 🥀

Reviewer: gg 💀

@lems9520138

Reviewer 3: with lems's permission i could make a pr that sansifies

Author: yea if you want go ahead otherwise i can do it

Author: > why were these left in 🥀

good catch lmao 💀

---
id: usaco-1445
source: USACO Bronze 2024 December
title: It's Mooin' Time
author: Arnav Gokhale
---

[Official Analysis (C++, Python)](https://usaco.org/current/data/sol_prob3_bronze_dec24.html)

## Explanation

Notice that modifying exactly one character can only affect at most 3 substrings.

For example, had the string been $\text{ABCDEF}$ and the $\text{C}$ was modified to a $\text{Z}$, the affected substrings would now be, $\text{ABZ}$, $\text{BZD}$, and $\text{ZDE}$.

Using this, we can first precompute a map representing the counts of each moo that was originally present in the string. Then, we can try every single possible edit to the string, with a total of $\mathcal{O}(26N)$ possible modifictaions. For each one of these changes, subtract the counts of the affected moos, and add the new counts.

If any string ever reaches a frequency of $F$ before or after modifictations, it can be added to the answers.

## Implementation

> **Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(26N)$

Reviewer: maybe use a constant $C$ instead of 26? cuz usually we don't include the pure numbers in time complexity, but it is fairly significant here

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

int main() {
	ios_base::sync_with_stdio(0);
	cin.tie(0);

	int n, f;
	cin >> n >> f;
	string c;
	cin >> c;

	set<string> answers;
	map<string, int> counts;

	// Function to check whether a given sequence starting at position i is a MOO
	auto check = [&](int i) {

> 		if (i < 0 or i + 2 >= n) return false;

Author: done
